I’m blaming Ducky for this. She came up with  an idea for a game thread, that involves writing scenes from the middle of book. A scene can be pages long, however. It seemed that something shorter might be just the thing.

In this exercise, the idea is to write a paragraph that would be a random passage from a story. An effective paragraph is one that has unity (it isn’t a hodgepodge of things), focus (everything in the paragraph stacks up to the whatever-it-is the paragraph is about), and coherence (the content follows smoothly). For this exercise, the paragraph should be quick to read--say, not be more than 100 words long.

A paragraph needn’t be several sentences long, but might be only a sentence or two, or a single line of dialogue.

Or it could be a snippet of dialogue with narration:

She made an attempt to straighten her tawny hair. Her voice quavered with emotion. “You must be a very lonely man, Judge Seagrave.” Then she turned a gaze on him that might have ignited a rain-sodden haystack. “And I’m a lonely woman.”

It might be merely descriptive:

Lines of weeds criss-crossed the cracked parking Ansal lot of the Seashell Motor Courts. The flaking paint on the buildings had chalked to a pastel pink on walls covered with graffiti. Many of the windows had been smashed out. Where the sign had been, atop rusting steel posts, only the metal outline of a seashell remained.

It might have action but no dialogue:

It was Ms. Fitzhugh. She was walking fast. A strange expression crossed the faces of the students as they glanced toward the door and saw the principal go straight into the boys’ restroom. The footsteps stopped. There was a deep, throaty sound difficult to describe. Then came an eruption of shrill screaming and a rapid sound of heels. Moments later, Ms. Fitzhugh emerged, her eyes wild. Screaming, she skidded in the hall and headed toward the office.

It might be expository:

Above ground was the medieval settlement of Ansal Outpost, originally a fort to guard the cave entrance. Its inception as a town had been in the lodging and supply needs of explorers there to attempt the subterranean labyrinth when it had opened as a commercial venture. With the caverns’ flooding and subsequent closure, however, Skaar’s Outpost had declined into an agricultural community miles from any trade routes.

These are merely examples. Have fun! 

reply | flag *

That sounds really cool! I'd read a book with that in it. 

 i used to think that rain was romantic. That it held possibility. It smells fresh and delicious and intoxicating and it whispers of new beginnings as it pounds against the ground. When it rained, you could imagine your car breaking down. You could imagine some hot guy stopping his car to help you out, the rain plastering his hair to his face and soaking you both. You could imagine leaning in closer to him with the roaring of the storm in your ears and smelling damp earth on him and kissing, with rain pattering relentlessly on top of the two of you, while the wind blew and you both froze. But it would be alright. Being cold doesn't matter half so much if you're cold with someone else.
I always thought rain was like that, so wonderful and fresh and exciting and romantic.
At least, up until I found my boyfriend dead on the pavement in the middle of a thunderstorm three days before my birthday.

That came out a lot grimmer than I meant it to be... :P 


Actually, I more or less patterned it off of the Harry Potter series, when Rowling (or her editors) feel the need to recount exactly who Harry is in every book. Normally, this doesn't bug me since, for instance, someone could feasibly read any given Dresden Files book before Changes and thus a refresher on Dresden's character could be useful, but reading the Order of the Pheonix makes no sense without the preceeding books anyway, so why tell us about a character we've already known for 1,500 or so pages? More importantly, why is it always so bland?

Anyway, that would be stuck in near the beginning of book four or five (but wouldn't be the opening paragraph or even in the opening chapter).

He strained his ears, but heard nothing.

Silence should be safe. Silence should tell him, even in the dark, that nothing approached him, that nothing nearby could hurt him. Nonetheless, he began to long for noise, especially for the noise of straight-forward confrontation. To fight an enemy directly would be a blessing compared to stumbling blind, searching for the voiceless, incoporeal monstrosity the already nearly destroyed him twice.
